So for the next section,
we will look at analyzing datasets for missing values,
and really just go into the high-level methods to impute.
Missing values are especially common in healthcare where you may
have incomplete records or some fields are sparsely populated.
So this might be a review for some of you from your statistics courses,
but just to review, there are three common ways to classify why data is missing.
I've to admit that the naming conventions are not the most intuitive.
First, MCAR which stands for missing completely at random.
This really means that the data is missing due to something unrelated to the data,
and there is no systemic reason for the missing data.
There is an equal probability that data is missing for all cases.
This is often due to some instrumentation like a scale
broken or a process issue or some of the data is randomly missing.
Second, MAR refers to missing at random.
This is the opposite case where there is
some systemic relationship between data and the probability of missing data.
For example, there might be some demographics and surveys
that are more likely to reveal some pieces of data than others.
Lastly, MNAR is missing not at random.
This usually means there's a relationship between
a value in the dataset and the missing values.
Knowing which one of these can better inform your choices for
imputing as we will review some approaches in the next slide.
Many of you might be familiar with common approaches for missing values,
like removing the row or imputing a statistical value.
These approaches can be tested,
but there are certainly trade-offs.
Depending on the classification of why a field has missing values,
it can inform different approaches.
We won't go into detail on the implementation,
but I just wanted you to be aware of this.
Now we'll go back to the notebook and look at analyzing missing values.
Missing values are important consideration to analyze your dataset for.
In many cases, there are systems that might provide
null values or because of the aggregation level,
this might be normal due to the denormalize nature of the dataset.
Looking at the dataset we worked with earlier,
we can come up with a quick calculation for a percent_null and zero in each column.
So here are the results from that dataset we looked at earlier.
How does the null look for this dataset?
In this case, it looks pretty good,
with no columns with null values,
but this is an example of a process dataset that has been cleaned up.
Why do you think the dataset has a high number of zero values though?
In this case, the zero values are actually a value that it's assigned to something else.
Like in one case, it's for gender.
If a field has missing values that we need to impute,
we could use some of the methods we mentioned earlier for simple imputation such as
the removal of a row or statistical imputation approaches, and then compare them.
So now we'll do some analysis of outliers.
For this example, you can see two fields with box plots.
For the age field,
there are no outliers detected.
However, for the second field, serum cholesterol,
you can see that there are some outliers with very high levels of
cholesterol that are outside of the 1.5 IQR range.
To fix outliers in this case,
we might just drop anything beyond the 1.5 IQR range from the dataset.
Now that we've quickly reviewed missing values and outliers,
we can move on to the next section.
It's important to know that you will not be required to
deal with either of these in the project for this course.